CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to ASCP (Agent Shared Cognition Protocol)

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the **Agent Shared Cognition Protocol (ASCP)**.

ASCP is intended to become an **open, vendor-neutral Internet Standard** supporting the emerging **Cortex Layer**—a durable substrate for human–AI shared cognition.

This repository hosts **early, pre-IETF drafts** of the ASCP specifications and supporting documents. Contributions are welcome and strongly encouraged.

---

# 🧭 Guiding Principles

- **Open specification, not proprietary control**  
- **Interoperability above implementation preference**  
- **Clarity, precision, and testability**  
- **Alignment with IETF processes and norms**  
- **Human-centered collaboration (Cortex Layer design goals)**

---

# 📑 What You Can Contribute

You may contribute:

- Improvements to draft specification text  
- Corrections to grammar, terminology, or formatting  
- Proposed clarifications or refinements to semantics  
- Security considerations, threat models, and protocol hardening  
- ABNF grammar improvements  
- Examples or implementation guidance  
- Issues, discussions, and proposals  
- Early prototype implementations (Apache 2.0)  
- Experience reports or interoperability findings  

---

# 🛠 Contribution Process

We use a **Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)** workflow.  
No separate CLA is required at this stage.

To contribute:

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**
3. Make your edits or additions
4. **Sign your commit** using the DCO format  
   (`git commit -s -m "…"` adds the required signature)
5. Submit a Pull Request
6. Participate in discussion and revision if needed

Every commit must contain the `Signed-off-by:` line that states you have the right to contribute the code/text under the project licenses.

---

# 🧾 Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)

By contributing, you assert that:

```
Developer Certificate of Origin 1.1

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(1) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have 
    the right to submit it under the license(s) indicated in the file; or

(2) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of 
    my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have 
    the right under that license to submit that work with modifications; or

(3) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person 
    who certified (1), (2) or (3), and I have not modified it.

(4) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are 
    public and that a record of the contribution (including my name and 
    email address) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed 
    consistent with this project or the open source licenses involved.
```

To sign your commit:

```
git commit -s
```

---

# ⚖️ Licensing Expectations

Contributions are accepted under the licensing model defined in the repository’s `LICENSE` file:

### **Specification Text**
- Accepted under terms consistent with the **IETF Trust Legal Provisions (TLP)**  
- Derivative works MAY NOT present themselves as the original specification  
- Text contributions may later be submitted to the **IETF**  
- Upon IETF submission, contributions become governed by the IETF Trust

### **Code Components in Specs (ABNF, schemas, examples)**
- MUST be contributed under **BSD-2-Clause**

### **Reference Implementations**
- MUST be contributed under **Apache 2.0**

By submitting contributions, you agree to these terms.

---

# 🌐 Path Toward IETF Standardization

ASCP is explicitly being developed with the intention of:

- Producing **Internet-Drafts (I-Ds)**  
- Participating in a **Birds-of-a-Feather (BoF)** discussion  
- Moving toward a **Working Group (WG)**  
- Publishing **Standard-Track RFCs**

As such, contributions should align with IETF norms:

- Clear, technical, non-promotional writing  
- Protocol behaviors described as **MUST/SHOULD/MAY** (RFC 2119 / 8174)  
- Precise definitions and unambiguous semantics  
- Security and privacy considerations included early

---

# 💬 Discussions & Issues

We welcome:

- Technical clarifications  
- Architectural debate  
- Security analysis  
- Comparisons with related work  
- Interop questions  
- Early adopter feedback  

Please be respectful, constructive, and collaborative.

---

# 🙌 Thank You

By contributing, you are helping establish a foundational protocol for the next era of human–AI collaboration.  
Your input helps ensure ASCP evolves into an open, durable, and trustworthy standard for the global ecosystem.

If you have questions or want to discuss the design more deeply, feel free to open an issue or contact:

📧 **ascp@reframetech.com**

Commit message:

Update contribution guidelines for DCO compliance
Clarified the requirement for a 'Signed-off-by:' line in commits and emphasized its necessity before submitting a Pull Request.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to ASCP (Agent Shared Cognition Protocol)

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the **Agent Shared Cognition Protocol (ASCP)**.

ASCP is intended to become an **open, vendor-neutral Internet Standard** supporting the emerging **Cortex Layer**—a durable substrate for human–AI shared cognition.

This repository hosts **early, pre-IETF drafts** of the ASCP specifications and supporting documents. Contributions are welcome and strongly encouraged.

---

# 🧭 Guiding Principles

- **Open specification, not proprietary control**  
- **Interoperability above implementation preference**  
- **Clarity, precision, and testability**  
- **Alignment with IETF processes and norms**  
- **Human-centered collaboration (Cortex Layer design goals)**

---

# 📑 What You Can Contribute

You may contribute:

- Improvements to draft specification text  
- Corrections to grammar, terminology, or formatting  
- Proposed clarifications or refinements to semantics  
- Security considerations, threat models, and protocol hardening  
- ABNF grammar improvements  
- Examples or implementation guidance  
- Issues, discussions, and proposals  
- Early prototype implementations (Apache 2.0)  
- Experience reports or interoperability findings  

---

# 🛠 Contribution Process

We use a **Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)** workflow.

This means each commit must include a `Signed-off-by:` line stating that you have the right to contribute the changes under the project’s licenses.
No separate Contributor License Agreement (CLA) is required.

To contribute:

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**
3. Make your edits or additions
4. **Sign your commit** using the DCO format  
   (`git commit -s -m "…"` adds the required signature)
5. Submit a Pull Request
6. Participate in discussion and revision if needed

Please confirm all commits in the feature branch have the required `Signed-off-by:` before submitting your Pull Request.

---

# 🧾 Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)

By contributing, you assert that:

```
Developer Certificate of Origin 1.1

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(1) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have 
    the right to submit it under the license(s) indicated in the file; or

(2) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of 
    my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have 
    the right under that license to submit that work with modifications; or

(3) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person 
    who certified (1), (2) or (3), and I have not modified it.

(4) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are 
    public and that a record of the contribution (including my name and 
    email address) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed 
    consistent with this project or the open source licenses involved.
```

To sign your commit:

```
git commit -s
```

---

# ⚖️ Licensing Expectations

Contributions are accepted under the licensing model defined in the repository’s `LICENSE` file:

### **Specification Text**
- Accepted under terms consistent with the **IETF Trust Legal Provisions (TLP)**  
- Derivative works MAY NOT present themselves as the original specification  
- Text contributions may later be submitted to the **IETF**  
- Upon IETF submission, contributions become governed by the IETF Trust

### **Code Components in Specs (ABNF, schemas, examples)**
- MUST be contributed under **BSD-2-Clause**

### **Reference Implementations**
- MUST be contributed under **Apache 2.0**

By submitting contributions, you agree to these terms.

---

# 🌐 Path Toward IETF Standardization

ASCP is explicitly being developed with the intention of:

- Producing **Internet-Drafts (I-Ds)**  
- Participating in a **Birds-of-a-Feather (BoF)** discussion  
- Moving toward a **Working Group (WG)**  
- Publishing **Standard-Track RFCs**

As such, contributions should align with IETF norms:

- Clear, technical, non-promotional writing  
- Protocol behaviors described as **MUST/SHOULD/MAY** (RFC 2119 / 8174)  
- Precise definitions and unambiguous semantics  
- Security and privacy considerations included early

---

# 💬 Discussions & Issues

We welcome:

- Technical clarifications  
- Architectural debate  
- Security analysis  
- Comparisons with related work  
- Interop questions  
- Early adopter feedback  

Please be respectful, constructive, and collaborative.

---

# 🙌 Thank You

By contributing, you are helping establish a foundational protocol for the next era of human–AI collaboration.  
Your input helps ensure ASCP evolves into an open, durable, and trustworthy standard for the global ecosystem.

If you have questions or want to discuss the design more deeply, feel free to open an issue or contact:

📧 **ascp@reframetech.com**
